hi welcome to cs61a fall 2015 video
walkthrough for the final my name is
Raymond and both James and Michael um
we'll also be going through some
questions okay so this is a question one
this is a what would python print uh
it's really nice with these
objectoriented type questions to draw a
little diagram so I'm going to draw the
Adele class we have
a um class variable without times which
points to a thousand uh then we have an
anit method it points to an AIT method
and an Str Str method I'm going to do
the same thing for hello but it's
important to note that I'm going to draw
an arrow that basically I'm going to say
it inherits from the Adele class so hell
hello all only has a next method
remember we don't actually have to have
a uh init method because the init
method's inherited that's the whole
point of inheritance okay now we have a
never equals iter scheme to be home so
remember that uh strings are iterable
what does that mean well an iterable is
something an object that we can iterate
through by definition it means that its
iter
method uh
returns return value is a
iterator so uh although we're not doing
it in this problem it's important to
note that we can say 4X in iterable like
we can Loop through a string for example
what this HP what this does under the
hood is it calls the inner method then
it calls the next method then it calls
uh until it hits a stop iteration so um
what our program is going to be sort of
doing is breaking it apart we're we're
calling the it it method um and then
we're going to be calling the next
method instead of doing it in a for Loop
but you need to know that you can do it
in a for loop as well so let's draw that
maybe in our um sort of global frame
because we need to keep track of um our
never so never is going to be pointing
to this string scheme
to be home actually it's uh I'm going to
put in parenthesis it's a iterator
because we called it and that's
important as well okay so then we have
an any uh an any function that points to
a function any and now we have a outside
so outside is going to be an instance of
the hello class so how I'm going to do
that I'm going to draw a little box this
is going to be
outside um it's going to point to our
hello class this is going to say
instance and uh so now we run through
the Constructor um so the Constructor
says self. call equals U well U is a
function called any parenthesis any so
I'm going to draw that here any
parentheses
any but the interesting thing about uh
python is if we return if we if we EV
are evaluating a function that has yield
statements in it what's going to happen
is calling any any is is just going to
return a
generator um this is really tricky
because normally when we have a function
call we're going to be you know calling
our function then going line by line but
we don't do that yet because our
function is a generator object so the
only way that we can actually go through
our code is by calling next on um any
any if we were to call this somewhere in
our code then we'd be able to go line by
line does that make sense because we
have a yield statement this is just
going to return a generator object so we
go to our outside class we say
self. call is now going to point to um
okay I guess I will draw a little arrow
it's going to point to this generator
object any any um we're actually so this
is actually the more parameter but we're
passing the any function in okay so now
we can walk through our code so next
never let's look at our Global frame we
have a never we have a scheme to be home
that's actually an iterator so we can
call the next method so what's the next
method going to do it's actually going
to um return the value sort of the first
value in the string and then move on to
the C so now um our iterator is going to
be pointing at the C but it'll actually
return RS does that make sense uh
because you know if we have an iterator
we can call next and it'll get the first
value and then move on to the second
value and keep going sort of like a list
we can call next and get the first value
all right so next
outside okay um we're going to look at a
next method is there a uh next method in
our uh remember uh underscore uncore
next is a magic method so we can call it
like so so we look into our uh hello
class there is a next method so then we
go into our next method it's going to be
calling next of self. call let's look at
our outside
um function uh instance look at self.
call remember self. call points to this
generator object so now just like I was
talking before we actually did call next
on an arc self. call which pointed
pointed to any any so now we actually
walk through the code here uh I'm going
to erase this we're going to be walking
through the code
here does that make sense because we
called next on self. call actually we
called Next that called the hello next
that called the next of self. call which
is a generate object so now we actually
walk through so let's look at our code
it says next and then increments never
so we look for never never is in our
Global frame we increment it but
remember we don't print it out because
um this is inside of a function and we
aren't saying print next never but all
we're doing now is going to be
incrementing now to the age but we're
going to print outside so we look for
our outside there is is um no
outside there is an outside in a global
frame uh I forgot to write that outside
actually points
to this instance right here but now we
say print outside so remember that print
um I'll draw it here or right here print
calls the doubl uncore St so we look at
we're going to print outside which is an
instance of our hello class we look at
our hello um class there is no ST Str
method we look at our inheritance there
is an Str Str method so we go here
return self. times so all this is going
to do is
print self. times uh remember our Str
strr method has to have a return
statement so it's going to print self.
times which is a th and it's going to
come out like a thousand because
remember saying something like print you
know
high in strings gets rid of the strings
and so just that's what happened here
okay now we can actually to move on to
our yield statement so our yield
statement is um going
to now yield next never what does yield
mean well yield is like a returning
except it knows its place so whenever we
call like when when we call next again
on our any
method um we we actually will'll restart
we'll start back at our at the yield
value but so we return this value next
to never let's go to our never never is
this string we call next so it'll
actually return the H and move on so
it'll act it'll um return our H but it's
important now that we're I want to put a
star there because we're yielding this
which means the next time we call next
it'll resume its position
there all right so let what that's what
happened right here next outside so we
resume our position exactly where we
left off because outside um this is
exact same reasoning what happened here
we called the next of the hello next of
the generator so we resume we print next
never so let's look at our our never
next is the E we cross it out we print
it remember you know you're saying print
high you take out the quotes So then we
have um actually I'm going need a little
bit more room then we have uh the next
uh the next value yield more more
so more is any any any is again a
generator object as we saw before so
this is going to make another any any
here we'll call this
a two this is our second any
any um I going to put in parentheses
this is actually our more
more so we yield this this returns a
generator same reasoning before
because any any is a function called to
this function and this function has a
yield statement so we don't actually go
inside until we call it next so we can
actually now go back to here we know
next outside is going to be a
generator because this is yielded right
here so now we can call next of our
generator object um and this next method
will go to restart it'll it's sort of
like another instance of a generator
object with this any method so we're
actually going to be here I'll draw the
arrows on the left side so this is our
second generator we call next never we
go to never we cross out the M cross it
out remember we don't print it or
anything and then we print outside so we
look here there is an outside you know
called the strr method we print um a
th000 and then we yield now we're now
we're on this line right here I'll put a
star we yield next never we go to never
we cross this out we yield it so we
get character e all right now let's look
at list never and then list splicing so
or List yeah list splicing so list never
never is this never right here note that
it doesn't restart to scheme TB home
because it's an iterator object and we
actually were we going through it so
sort of like how an iterator like the
analogy is like um like a bookmark we've
gone through our book and then we're now
going to convert the rest of the book
into a list so we're going to convert
the rest of the book just this part to a
list so that is going to look like
two
B
um h o
m uh
e all different
um uh indexes in our list and remember
that we can convert strings to lists and
that'll actually turn each letter of our
string as a list and that's something to
remember as well so we look at our list
splicing colon
3 um remember this is our start index
and this is our end index and this is
inclusive and this is exclusive so
inclusive we start at zero so we
actually get 0 1 two and then we don't
include the three so our final output is
going to be
two B
H does that make sense we converted the
rest of our never to a list and did that
okay so let's go back now to next next
outside so this call is very similar to
this call this next outside remember we
were looking
at
um this right hand side where our star
was remember our star is now at our more
more which is what was the last time we
called Next outside so we actually call
it we continue but notice how there's no
more more lines afterwards remember this
next outside is actually referencing
this generator object right here not
this one because this one is only uh
visible to this local call so we call
this generator object it has nothing
left so that'll actually raise a stop
iteration um I should have reviewed what
a generator is so remember a generator
is a special type of iterator um so it
does uh when it runs out of things to
yield it'll raise a stop iteration and
so this will actually raise an exception
oh why is it
except okay yeah all right so we're
going to do this environment diagram
Endor and from the looks of it they
already defined tempt for us so um in
the global frame we what we have to
Define is Sith and Jedi so going down it
looks like Sith is going to be some
empty list so we can just write this as
some list here right now and then Jedi
has element in his list so oops we'll
say
list with
three um they Define temp for us and we
know that um we don't actually execute
the body of this function until we call
it and so we call it in here temp with
Sith so we're going to open up a new
frame which they've defined as tempt and
the parent is
global and they're going to set power to
Sith
so we have some
power and this is bound to what Sith is
pointing to and we know that Sith is
pointing to this empty list so let's
just draw a pointer to this empty
list um so now we're executing the body
of Temp and it looks like force is bound
to some Lambda function so the next
thing you want to do is write
force and let's point it to some
Lambda we'll say this is Funk
Lambda
1 and takes no
arguments and the parent is where we
defined
it so it's going to be
F1 uh tempt is then going to be bound to
force so we have uh
tempt pointing to a force is pointing to
which is this fun
Lambda okay and now we're going to
Define balance within here
and for balance we're just going to say
funk
balance this takes in some parameter
force and the par parent is F1 because
we defined it in the F1
frame and then we're going to return
balance of
four okay so we're going to call balance
here and we're going to copy this parent
over which is
F1 and now we're going to execute
balance of four so force is going to be
bound to
four and we notice that okay here's a
non-local power and what does that mean
um essentially we're allowed to edit
what power is in our parent frame so we
look in F1 and we see that we have a
parameter power and now we're able to
change that in F1 frame instead of the
F2
frame uh so it says a power. aend force
now from here it looks like power is an
empty list and we want to append Force
to it and so we're going to find force
by looking it up in our current frame
which is four and then we're going to
append it in the list in our F1
frame so we have zero and we have four
and then after that it says if force is
less than two we're going to return
tempt we look at force in our F2 frame
and it's currently four so we're going
to just ignore that if
statement um and now it says power
equals Jedi so power remember we
non-local it and so power in the F1
frame is going to be bound to Jedi in
the global frame so we can erase
this oops and point it to
Jedi
okay uh the next thing we want to do is
called return balance of
one and then we're going to evaluate
this portion first so let's see balance
when we call it we have to open up a new
frame and the parent for this is going
to be
F1 we know that force is going to be
bound to one in this case because you
pass in a one for the
argument and we're going to nonlocal
power again so non-local power means we
can edit the uh power param the power
variable in our
F1 and so it says we're going to append
Force to it and power currently points
to this Jedi list and so we're going to
append Force which is
one so we appended that to this current
list and then we're we going to say if
force is less than two we're going to
return tempt so in this case force is
less than two and so our return value is
going to be pointing to what tempt is
pointing to and we know that tempt
points to this funk
Lambda okay
so now that we know that this portion
evaluates to some Lambda we're going to
call it with our empty
parentheses um we know that this Lambda
is the one we're going to call so let's
open up a a new
frame Lambda and we Define its parent as
F1 and it looks like it returns some
list and in order to know what this list
takes in we have to evaluate the
operands and so we're going to point
this to some
list and we know it's going to be two
elements but we don't know what's in
them yet so it's going to be the length
of power which is if you see here
power is currently a two element
list and then it's going to be Force so
we're going to look in the F1 frame for
a force and it's going to be this funk
Lambda so we're going to make a pointer
to this
funk and that's the bulk of it so when
we return out of here we're going to
point this to this
list and then we're going
to um return out of tempt and we know
that this tempt frame has no return so
essentially its return value is going to
be
none all right so this problem is
essentially testing your knowledge of
python list mutations using special
functions such as append extend and pop
so just walking through some quick
examples um a pen essentially takes an
object and adds it to the end of your
list so if we Define X to be 1 2 3 and Y
to be a list 4 five if we x. append y
we're going to add y to the end of our
list so X is going to be 1 2 3 and the
full list four
five as one whole element added at the
end of your X list the difference
between append and extend is that extend
is actually going to iterate through
your iterable so what that means is if
we x. extend y it's going to add one two
but then it's going to go through each
element of Y and add that to the end of
X so we see in y we have four and five
it's going to unpack that and add it to
um your X list and so that's the
difference between aend and extend and
as you can see one actually just puts
the entire object at the end of your
list while the other one um unpacks it
to say and um we have another uh
function pop and what this does is okay
so if we have a list X is 1 2 3 and we
pop
X um then that's essentially going to
take off the last element of your list
if you don't specify any arguments and
return that value so X can be one two
but the return value is going to be
three okay um similarly these return
values are going to be none because they
mutate a list
okay so using this information we can
now approach these
problems um first off it looks like uh
we want to Define some s and it's a list
that has two as the first
[Music]
element and some funk Lambda as its
second argument and it's convenient
because they already defined it for
us um the next thing we want to do is we
going to do s. append the first index
element of s and we're going to call
that so we're going to index into our s
which is this funk Lambda and we're
going to call that with no arguments
okay so we're going to use this Lambda
and create a copy of our current
list so we're going to
append a
copy of this
list so our current list consisted of
Two and a pointer to this funk
okay so this is the second element and
that's what append is um if we extend it
by indexing into the first element and
calling this Lambda we're going to
create a list of our current elements in
here so we can think of it as we're
creating a list of what we have now
which is two a pointer to some
funk right and another pointer to some
list just for clarity um so we're going
to iterate through each object in this
list and then append it at the end of
this s list so our third element we can
see is going to be a
two our fourth element will be this
pointer to this function and our fifth
element is going to a pointer to this
list okay so that's it for that problem
all right so doing part two we see that
it's a similar structure to part one um
we're essentially going to initialize
some list and we see that this one has
um a two as his first element and a
Lambda function as a second which is
also conveniently defined for
us so the first thing we do is append um
s of the one comma to the end so what
that means is a list splice and by list
splicing you're creating a new list so
that's an important thing to note and um
list splicing this current list uh we're
just going to have this funk because
that's everything from one index one to
the end
so um let's draw it out here we have in
our list um it's going to be some
pointer to a
funk but then outside of this list is
another
list um so the first thing we're going
to do is we know
that this we're going to append a list
to
this inside of this list is another
list as if that wasn't confusing
enough okay and inside this inner list
is going to be the pointer to the
function okay so that's a
pend and for
extend what we want to do is do the same
thing where we um splice the list from
one onward so now we have two elements
in our splice and it looks like um it's
going to be surrounded by another Auto
list so the elements in this outer list
are going to be this pointer to a
function and a poter to another
list
okay and now when we extend something we
know that we have to iterate through all
the elements in our list and since we're
extending
it um we're going to iterate through um
the elements in our outer list
uh not the inner one so that's an
important thing to note so because we
only have one element in our outer list
we're just going to extend it by this so
we know that we're
extending our um list s by one element
which is another
list inside of this list however there
are two pointers one is to the function
and the other one is to this
list and um the tricky thing about this
problem is just noticing that there's a
list um within a list and that list
comprehensions actually create another
list all right so moving on to part
three um this problem is a little tricky
and so I allocated some extra space on
the side for it um so similar to the
problems we did before we're going to
initialize s the first element of s is
going to be a
two and the second element um index one
is going to be some funk Lambda
um in the parents
Global
okay um so we're going to
append this other Lambda function at the
end so attaching onto s we're going to
have another Funk Lambda let's call this
Lambda 2
now and app parent here is going to be
Global um okay so we're extend
extending by S of two and we're calling
that so um in order to not lose track of
where we are let's just um draw this out
step by step on our scratch paper so we
want the return value of s of two so we
know what to Extended
by and so we don't know what this is
yet and so we'll find that out by um
calling this Lambda function over here
um so when we call this Lambda
function we know that we're going to
return some s.
append but we don't know what the value
we're going to append is yet until we
pop it so we're going to append it by
some
value um so in order to solve this
problem we have to evaluate it um
argument first and
so um breaking it down we're going to go
into the innermost arguments so we're
going to S St poop our last element off
list s and so we're going to essentially
take this element off but we're going to
call it because pop returns that value
and so we return this Lambda function
and we're going to call it again so
calling Lambda 2 which is the same
function that we were just in we're
going to um open up essentially like a
new frame if you want to think about
think about it like
that um and this return
value is um unknown right now right we
have to evaluate the arguments inside s.
aen and s. pop so similar to what we
just did we're going to S stop pop again
and now we get this
function so evaluating this
function we're going to list our current
s and currently our s is just one list
it's just um a one element list with two
inside and so we're going to s. append
um this list
too okay so let's draw a new list
here we know the first element is going
to be two and the second one is going to
be some
list with two in
it right
okay so the return value of a pending
after we did that is going to be none
and so this Lambda that we were just in
has going to is going to have a return
value of none inside of a list because
it's surrounded by these
brackets okay so now now that we have
this information we know what to append
here we're going to append a list of
none so the next element that we're
adding onto our list s is going to be um
a list containing just none
so we have
none okay and we know that s. append
none returns none
itself so we know that this is going to
correspond to the return value of this
whole
thing which is just um a list of
none so when we extended remember that
we're going to go through each element
instead of our iterable and in this case
the index of two on S um this is going
to be our iterable and it's just um this
list none and extending it we're going
to add each element to the end so we
only have one
element and so um this third element is
just going to be
none all right so for question 3A we're
looking at big path which Returns the
number of paths in a tree whose sum is
at least n so a path is a list of
adjacent nodes no values such that we're
going to start from some root value and
end at some Leaf so if we look at one
this example tree
here a path could be one to two 1 3 and
four and then 1 three and five now in
big path we want the paths such that the
value the tree values on those path sum
together to be greater than or equal to
n so the simplest tree that we can think
of is let let's say a tree with just a
leaf so in this case two itself is a
path and since it's a Le the only value
on this path is just T do label or yeah
t do label and so in order for this to
be at least n then t. Lael must be
greater than or equal
to n
so here we do if T is as leaf and for a
base case if a tree we want to make sure
that t. label is greater than or equal
to n we're going to pass this into a
function one which returns one if it's
if the Boolean is true if not it's going
to be zero so in this case if it's true
then we're going to return one which is
the number of path that we have that
satisfy the
constraint so let's look at the
recursive case remember trees are made
up of a root value and a list of sub
trees so since these are all trees we
can make the recursive call to each one
of them but we want to think about
what's the N value want to pass down so
in this case if we go left one to two
then our path our current path already
has already looked at one so if we
already looked at one then two must be
greater than or equal to nus one in
order for it to work so if we have some
path path from this sub Tre onwards that
is greater than or equal to n minus one
then it must mean that up here the path
from one and two or anything that's
below it has to be greater than or equal
to n so we're going to pass n minus one
down here and also nus one down here so
again looking at three we get n minus
one pass in and our path is our paths
possible paths is one 3 4 or 1 3 and
five so have having looked at one
already we're looking at three so the
value going to pass down to four is
going to be n -1 - 3 which is just nus 4
and again same thing for this side we
going to pass down n minus 4 because
we've already seen one and three for
both these paths and if the path from
four onwards or five onwards sums up to
n minus at least n minus 4 then
back up to three we're going to have a
value that sum up to at least n minus
one and back up to one then our pass has
to at least sum up to n minus Su up to
at least n so here we have a sum and we
have list comprehension so we want to
iterate for C and t.
children and we're just going to call a
big
path on it with on the sub tree C and
the value we're going to pass in is
going to be n minus t.
Lael so moving on to problem 3B here we
to use um big Theta to represent the
number of paths in a tree with n
nodes so in which that every non-leaf
node has at least two children all right
so the very first thing you think of
when you think looking about trees and
recursion is that oh because we each one
has at least two n branches is going to
be 2N but you're going to be careful
about this because you actually want to
analyze what it means to have the number
of paths and how is that how is that
going to increase as we increase n right
so we use the same tree from before we
look at one this is one new node and so
we're going to have one path right and
then we're going to add a new node two
on there and we're going to have one
two2 that's going to be another New Path
we
add three on here it's going to be 1 2 3
so another again New
Path and what if I add four here then
it's be what happens was a one three and
four and we get 1 3 and five notice that
each time I'm adding a node I am
increasing the number of paths so I'm
increasing the number of paths
number of paths by at Le at most one
right paths by at most one because when
I add four here this path is actually
it's gone because one and three is no
longer path so that was adding zero
paths whereas when I add a five 13 4 was
still One path but I'm adding 13 five
which is only one New Path so this means
that as we increase um as we increase n
the number of paths is going to
increase by at
most n because each one can only
increase by each additional new node can
only increase by at most One path so
since we using Theta this is going to be
Theta of
n in our path we is this is a more
generalized version of big path right
now we going to have a number of paths
such that
this F of redu GP and S is true so
reduce what it actually does is that
given some function some
iterable and some starting value is
going to go through each value of the
itable apply
function and S to the first value um
accumulates it to total and then goes to
the next value of the itable and then
applies function and the total and to
keep accumulating until we reach the end
so if we were to use add some itable
let's say 1 2 3 and the starting value
of like five it's going to go from it's
going to go five and one this adds
together to be six look at next value
two adds together to be um eight and
then three we apply add we going to get
11 notice that this is like an upside
down tree that means that we do not have
to use reduce in this function because
the way reduce works is that it works
from it's a bottom up tree right it's
making a bottom up tree so let's begin
by looking at this example T of even
power of two right so at the first value
of one what it does is our starting
value is two we're going to take the
power
of one and two and they want to pass it
down to both left and right on the left
side this value is passed down so this
becomes our total of the accumulator and
so we're going to do power of this value
and then two here and in this case we
want to keep going so the value going to
pass down here is going to be
power
of
Po power of one two
from the top and three right and then
we're going to pass this down to both
four and
five and at the bottom we want to make
sure that calling F on the value returns
true so here we're going to call F which
is going to be
even right so this is going to give us
an even value right two to^ 1 is two 2^
of two is going to be four that's even
whereas on these sides four and five
um so four the value here is going to be
even as well whereas at five is not
going to be even so that means that when
we're reaching a leavea we want to check
whether
apply combining together s and the label
is going to
be it's going to return true when pass
into our filter function so first to
reduce the first the Le value and S
together what you want to do is just
call G which is the accumulator function
that we have
of s and t.
Lael right so this is going to return
some value and now we're going to pass
it into
F and that's going to return true or
false and if it's true it's going to go
to one and return one if not it's going
to return zero so the number of path at
that LEF is going to be determined by
this um the result of this function
here now what about the recursive case
right again we're doing a sum over
certain values so it's going to be
looking at the subt trees right so for S
and t.
children we're going to make the
recursive call to all
path where now the tree is going to be a
smaller version of s is the function f
going to change well no because the
function f is only going to be applied
at the very bottom of our tree here so f
is going to stay the same so same thing
for G because G is the same function we
accumulating right so in reduce here add
is being added in both um in every
single step right but what about the
value s we're going to be passing on
right so you can think of s as both the
starting value and the total value we're
accumulating accumulating so after we
have moved on from
one and applying G on two and one the
new value is going to be power of 1 two
so this value is passed down to the
recursive call this sub tree so power is
G here and we going to pass in the value
that's passed down or the starting value
whatever depending at which depth of the
tree we're at and the other value is
just going to be t. label so we're going
to accum this is one accumulate action
we're going to pass down to the next
portion of the tree and then keep going
until we reach a leaf and at that point
we're going to call F to make sure that
it's true to return
one now since all path is a generalized
version of big path what we could do is
we can use all path to write big
path right so in big path again we want
the number of paths in t such that the
sum is larger than equal to n so our
filter function must
check must
check whether this value that we passing
in X has greater than or equal to n
right so at the bottom we're going to
make sure that the value we're having
here is has to be at most
n well what about the starting value
well in big path if we not if we when we
have not looked at any values of the
tree yet the starting value is zero
because there's no path then the sum of
those value is zero because we have not
seen a tree
yet right so s here is going to be some
value
zero and here since we want to define a
function but we don't have we don't have
a one line we're going to use a Lambda
function which takes
in one
argument and it's just going to compare
whether X is greater than or equal to n
right so at the bottom of our tree so 1
2 3 four five and the bottom of a tree
is just going to
compare is it's going to take a g some
Val G takes one here and two and then
checks whether this the result of this
is greater than or equal to n so now
we're going to think about what is this
G right so here the G would be 1 and
three right here the G would be G of 13
and four G of G of 13 and five right the
in big path we want the sum to to be
larger than equal to n so to sum things
up in this way G must be adding one and
three together and then add four right
so 1 + 3 + 5 to obtain the sum so each
step we're going to be adding a new
element onto our current sum into our
current s so G is just going to be the
function add and this is how you would
write big path using a
path for this question cucumber the main
thing is that we want to really truly
understand the question and then think
about how we want to implement the class
round right and think about what play
round is doing so here in this game
we're given four players which is number
Z one two and three in each round when
we play we're going to be passing in who
is playing and who's card right and this
is obtained from iterating over this
list of tbes that represent the player
and the card they're playing in that
specific
round so we at the end of the round some
player is going to be taking control of
the game and that player's card is at
least as high or higher than the highest
card played so far basically their card
is the max or tied for the max but since
they were the last player to play that
value they have control and the winner
is just that last player who is in
control right so first let's think about
what we're doing here R is round.
starter so starter is the starting
player for that round so in this case in
the init starter gets set as both self.
player and self. starter and self.
highest get sets to negative one we're
going to assume that for each player
they're not going to play any single
value card value that's less than um
zero
so we use native one to donate the
start of a
round right now think about this right
it's index um it's at the result what's
going to happen is that we're always
going to return round. winners and every
time
we're U we're playing a round or do
winners are going to get a p ended by
the next player who's won right so are
the winners just a list of sequences
that had contains the players who have
won in some round that we've been that
we've
played so here the thing about play
round on the first DOC test we're
looking at three is a starter so the
first tle that we pass in is three and
four that means player three is playing
which is fine because that's what we
want and his value is going to be four
Nick is going to be zero so remember
that we go three 0 1 2 3 so next player
after three is going to be zero here
zero plays eight eight is larger than
four so zero is now the one in control
but we go again because in each round
every single player gets to play at one
card right so now it's one's turn one
plays the same value as zero but since
one played the card after zero one is
the one in control and two is five is
going to be smaller so we're going to
return we're gonna pen one to round out
winners and return round out winners
right in the next case our starting
player is one we're going to play we're
going to play our. play with who S3 and
c s five but remember that we're the
starting player is one so three can't be
playing the first card so we have this
we have this error statement that
returned next one is one we play one the
current highest is four and then going
play two which is fine two comes after
one next nck uh the nck the value is
five so two is in control and then
onward to zero zero does not come after
player two so we have an error
again and so this value doesn't even
matter because zero should not be
playing and we go move on to three three
comes out two which is fine so we look
see that seven is the highest number so
three is in control and then finally at
zero we play six it's not high enough so
we we're going to pen three to our round
out winners and so we going return on
the winners so we see a three is
reflected here and the one has won
earlier moving on to the final doc test
we see that three starts so we have
three and seven seven is the highest
value three is control move on two this
is an error because two can't come after
three we have this error message it's
not your turn and then we can move on to
zero right so three zero which is fine
N9 is the current highest so zero is the
one control but one never get to play so
since one got to play the round ends and
no one gets added to round.
Winners so let's move on to the
code right so
in so the sequence of players is from 0
1 2 3 and then back to zero right so we
see that we have a play function and a
complete function right so what about
why why is do we want to use complete
why do we want want to Def find a method
here means that somewhere in play we're
going to use complete twice right so
before we even fill out complete just
that just assume that complete means
that checks that returns
true if
round is
complete we assume that self. control is
an instance variable of the player
that's in
control and so in order when when we're
going to append the person who's to
Winners it must mean that complete is
the round is complete so all we have to
do is call Self dot complete
here and remember that
since um you see that we have player one
in this doc test saying that this round
is over that means that we play so we
start at one right so one plays two two
plays three plays zero plays and we're
trying to play one again so in this this
case the round is already over so
there's no point in one playing a card
so this means that for this assert
statement to be printed the round must
be over so again we have self.
complete right now moving on to the
second statement it says that it's not
your turn player whoever is
playing remember that who is going to be
the one that is um going to be playing
for that card so we're going to use
self. player to denote the
player to play a
card because we can't
use we can't use self. starter because
that denotes whether who started the
round so here if
who
is not equal to s. player we're going to
have an insert statement to say that who
should not be playing right so now we're
going to move on to um the actual code
we see that we're going to set self.
player as
something so here in self. player we're
going to set this to the next player to
play because we can't set it in anywhere
else in our code so here we're going to
be
updating to next player
so self. player is going to be at one
but we only have four players in this
case since we have four players we can't
go from 0 1 2 3 and then four we have to
model it back by four but since we in O
um and using abstraction we actually
want to use the um self. players so
we're going to mod it by self do players
and this means that I can change this
value here to like five or 10 and they
can just change the number of players
that can be playing the
game right so now and card is greater
than self. highest this is where we're
going to update the person in control
and we want also want to update self.
highest which keeps track of the highest
card so self.
control gets updated to some value which
is going to be self which is going to be
who because who is the current player
that is playing and then and self.
highest will get
updated to
card right so we want self the control
in um here because we're appending self
the control and this instance variable
does not appear anywhere else because
it's not set and so we play go through
it Round And since no player can play a
car less than one the first call to play
will always update self. control to who
now moving on to complete in order for a
round to be complete we have to come
back to the player who started the round
so we started at two we have to go from
2 1 3 and back to two so that means that
self.
player has to equal to self.
starter and this is also another reason
why this update has to occur before we
check this self.
complete but what if but this is this
does not know whether you finished the
round or you just starting because when
you're just starting your
round we're going to hit this check and
self. player is equal to self. starter
in this case because self. starter gets
initialized as starter so what we also
want to check is that we want to make
sure self.
highest is not -1 because negative 1 is
what denotes whether we are starting a
around or not right and here is the op
um solution we see that we're making use
of abstraction and not repeating
code so this is uh 5A this is the
implement the group method which takes a
one argument function and a list it
returns a list of groups uh basically if
they're equal to f of x they appear in
the same order that they appeared in s
um so let's look at the doc test I think
the first thing you want to do in this
question is read the doc test five is a
3 4 5 2 1 so we pass in a Lambda that's
going to check basically if the number
is even or not so this returned one
right because three mod 2 is one this
returns so this returned one this
returns zero this returns one this
returns zero and this returns one when
we apply our Lambda to it so we're going
to group all the ones get all the Val
all the numbers that return the same
value one together and then we're going
to return all the values that return the
same number zero so 3 five and one get
together and four and two get together
um and note that three comes first
because it's in appears first in s uh
same goes here we apply X Mod 3 so 3 mod
3 is zero that's why it's by itself four
mod 3 is one five mod 3 is two and two
mod 3 is two as well so the five and two
get together and the four and one get
together okay so we start with an empty
list uh for B and map so sometimes uh we
want to understand what the code they're
giving us is doing so map is going to
apply our F to our s so let's actually
run through what map hypothetically
should return so map should return uh if
map F of
s
um map remember is going to return a new
list that applies F to every element of
s so let's look through this example
right here
um it's going to apply our xod 2 so uh
we should get a one actually it's going
to be this right here what I was talking
about we're going to apply our F we're
going to get one0 1 0
1 that's going to be this right here so
how what what what does that mean so for
B and map so we're going to be looping
through every value in
b um so what do you think we should do
we we we know we have a. append B so
what could a somehow be doing so a is
going to be adding some values here so
do we want to add every value to a that
doesn't seem right why would we um do
that so we we need to check something so
it seems like we're going to have to
somehow group our ones together and
group our zeros together so we actually
have to keep track of how many unique
values there are in our um map list
it uh like for example this example it
could be one or zero one or
two um and we need to keep track of is
do does zero appear does one appear and
does two appear so we actually want to
say if B not in a then we add it to a so
now sort of at the end of our for Loop
the end of our code or our our a should
have something like one and zero because
the first time B is going to be one it's
not in a already so we're going to add
one then we're going to Loop to the next
B which is zero it's not uh it's not an
A so we'll add zero then one is an a
then zero is an a then one is an A so
that makes sense why we need to keep
track of our ones and zeros uh sort of
the unique values okay so then we need
to return um some sort of bracket for b
and a so B is um
going to be either one or zero in our
example and we need to somehow group all
three five and one together so how can
we get 3 five and one well we're going
to have to Loop through S again so this
is going to be H this is going to be
another list comprehension X for um X in
s and then we'll have some condition uh
does that make sense so we can somehow
get our three five and one by looping
through S again so what what do we have
to check so we have to check if
our F ofx so applying our function f to
our value actually returns B Because if
it does return B for example it's a one
then we want to add the three to our
bracket if it's five we want to add a
three to our bracket and yeah so does
this make sense why our final return
values going to actually have brackets
you know inside brackets because our
value for our list for this list
comprehension is a list and we're
actually doing another list
comprehension inside of that so that is
the solution for
58 all right so let's move on to Part B
so Implement a group blink which takes
argument f it returns uh a list link
list of groups um same elements as group
F yeah return a link list of groups that
contain all x with equal F so again look
at the doc test 5al in 34521 that looks
like actually that looks like the same
doc test is above group link Lambda you
know we take out the uh we group
together the odd ones and the even ones
um so yeah this is exactly the same as
part A where we group three five and one
together then we group you know four and
two together and but except now we have
a link so to remember what link lists
are remember they have a first which
could be a link and a rest which has to
be either a link
or a empty link which is actually empty
tle okay so if s is link. empty return s
so this looks like that's a base case
we'll be doing some recursion and
actually we can see that right here a
equals filter link Lambda X so filter
link is actually found on the last page
of the final but um you know it's very
it's very similar to you know filter for
for lists and stuff so we have filter
link with Lambda you know takes in an X
and then X mod 2 or something and then
we pass in link you know one then link
two it'll only get rid of it'll get rid
of uh what does it say return a link
with the elements of s for Which F
returns a True Value
so it'll get rid of uh this will output
link two because this is the only value
uh this is the only this is the only
link where the value returns true for
our filter so filter link Lambda x
filter link so B filter link Lambda X as
well notice how they use an A and A B um
so it seems like a should be oh and and
notice that our return link actually has
a as the first element so I think our a
should actually return for our first DOC
test link three link five and Link one
and then we'll recursively group link
for B which should have everything
except three five and one so we're
probably going to have to filter our s
in both of our cases um but then how can
we actually filter out the three five
and one so the um let's look at so we
want we want all the values that
actually return the same value for f um
sorry we want to find all the values
where uh that have the
same value as our first value so this
would be 3 five and one so if we look at
our first value F uh called on three is
actually going to return one and we want
to look for all the values in our link
that have one here so how can we do that
well Lambda X we can actually call F on
X and we actually want to make sure that
this is double equal to um f called on S
do
first so the very first time around
we're going to be calling it on three so
F of three is going to return one
and so then
um now now we will look at
uh now we will we will apply F to every
element X in our s making sure that if
it is equal to F of three which is one
then we'll keep it in our final link so
what does that mean for B well that
means that we want all the ones that are
not equal to S do first yeah and it
might seem a little confusing that we
aren't we looping through S as we are um
looking at through X's so won't S here
change well it actually
um knows that this s is pointing to this
s because we uh defined it in our
Lambda yeah it's not the best
explanation but hopefully this makes
sense all right so let's move on to 5c
uh the multi-ring by function f of a
list is formed by following the
iterative process so first we group all
the elements that yield equal values and
then we keep applying F onto those
grouped values until we
uh until everything's in a single group
so let's look at the example um so for
example we have a function X it takes
the max of the the uh parameter minus 3
with zero and our list is 2 4 342 so the
first iteration or the zeroth iteration
rather the values are grouped purely by
their value
um and that's really important the twos
are grouped together just because
they're equal to two not we don't even
apply F so there's no F at
all uh no F then the first iteration we
apply F once to each element so F of two
is equal to F of three because 2 minus 3
the max of negative 1 and 0 is 0o and
the max of 0 and Z is zero so we group
the twos and the threes together and
then fours still have a Max of one
because four Min - 3 is 1 the second is
iteration now we apply it twice does
does that make sense so we actually need
to keep track of the previous value F of
two and apply that again so for example
our F of two was zero so then we'll
actually do 03 and the max is zero f of
four before was one but then now the max
of 1 - 3 and Zer is still zero so now
everything is grouped into one big um
group so let's take a look at let's
scroll down the doc test so multigroup
Lambda Max x - 30 0 2 432 that's the
exact um example we ran through so this
is going to be the final list notice
that yeah so this is our final list um
and then we uh notice how if we only
have one element in our list we just
return it that's important and if we
have two elements that are the same we
just group them together and then we
actually
um uh yeah and so for example this um
this one is going to be looking at
the it's going to get rid of the ones
place so it's going to group first the
twv together well first it it'll put all
the numbers in their respective lists
then it'll group the 12 together and
then it'll group and it'll group The 14s
together and then it'll actually just
group them all into one because once you
apply the Lambda again it'll cut off two
and they all have one so you know you
don't have to go through all the
examples so we're going to be using a
helper function that takes an G ands um
if lens s equals 1 we'll do something
else we'll take a we'll use our group
function from part A and I'll remind you
what that is in a little bit and uh
return using Lambda using Lambda Etc so
a couple things we can notice um we're
passing in s into our helper
function and if the Len of s is equal to
one for example this doc test what do we
want to return we only want to
return s0
because
um yeah we just want to take out that
value and return it and they gave us in
the doc test and and that'll work out
later
on this is important so the first time
we call using we're going to be passing
in in some Lambda function and we're
going to be using that Lambda to group
our values well remember what we were
talking about before the very first
iteration we don't even want to apply F
we just want to group purely based Bas
on our X so our Lambda is actually just
going to be an identity function those
that's what they're called when you just
return yourself so that'll be our
identity function oh not here sorry uh
right
here um
and yeah so now let's walk through so
for example let's pass in our F let's
let's walk through this doc test pass in
our f as this Lambda we pass in our S as
2 4342 so I'll write that 2 4342
this goes into here our Lambda is going
to be identity our Len is not zero so
we're going to group it so what is our
grouped value going to look like it's
actually going to look like um we're
going to group it based on our G which
is just our identity Matrix or identity
function so 2
two 3
4 does that make sense because that we
that we we did that in part A and
actually if you didn't even get part a
you could still do this problem just by
taking the the leap of faith um so yeah
so what do we want to do here we want to
call our using function again but now we
actually want to call F so let's just
think okay let's call
f um so we like basically what's going
to happen is going to call using again
using is going to run through this code
it'll group It Again by our G that we
pass in here so we're going to change it
so we think okay maybe we just want to
apply F so what if we were to sort it by
by applying F to each uh group and
remember that each group has the same
values by definition by how we grouped
it so we we only need to apply it to um
x0 right because for each X it'll Loop
through each element of our list take
the first element which should be the
same as all the rest of the elements
because of you know they should be
grouped correctly already and then apply
F to it okay so this this you know might
seem like a good solution and that will
work for our first iteration right
because our first iteration is just
going to be applying F to each grouping
which is what we're doing but our second
iteration it's not going to work because
notice how our second iteration uses F
of f of two so how can we call F twice
we don't want to call f um twice here
because uh for example if we called f
once already on our groupings and
grouped it accordingly so for example we
called x uh we called our fun again we
got something
like like this
um something like that we don't want to
be calling F again on that so we instead
need to do is actually call the previous
G
function because the previous G function
will actually give us the result of
calling F that many times sorry actually
we could have called f twice my bad my
bad my bad that would have worked for
our K2 iteration but it wouldn't have
worked for our k equals 3 because then
you would have f f f of three sorry yeah
so to get around that we're actually
going to use G which should already um
be calling F the right number of
times um does that make sense so our
solution is going to be s0 here uh
Lambda f
gx0 um and then Lambda X here whoops um
yeah I think definitely let that snc in
and actually try go through the dock
test yourself and run through this code
and we'll actually do that for Part D as
well all right so let's run through uh
five D which is um basically running our
function and Counting how many brackets
they going to be so um remember that our
function is first going to group purely
based on
um the values themselves
it's going to look something like
this uh and then it's now going to apply
F1 to it so I'll make a little chart I
guess applying it one time we we will
get for the three we'll get uh 3 mod 2
is not zero so it's going to do 3 * 3 +
1 is 10 so for the three and then for
the 20 and for the 128 so we get 10 two
or 20 run through this 20 mod 2 is 10
equals sorry 20 mod 2 is equal to zero
so then we get 10 as well then 128 is an
even number so we will get 64 so notice
how the tens are already together so
that means we're going to group these
two together because they have the same
F1 value I mean they have the same value
um of f applied once so I'll draw that
over here I guess um so
three oh all in one bracket three and 20
are now grouped together and then 88 uh
128 is grouped like that all right let's
do it one more time two so applying the
function yet another time we will get
five here we will get five here as well
um remember we don't we now we only have
to do it to one of them because we know
they're the same so we'll get five and
we'll get
32 so none of them are uh these are
still the same but 32 is not is still
different so it'll be something l
like basically we're going to I guess
I'll yeah I'll wrap it all around in
another
one uh
20 like that and then there's yet
another
extra parthy or bracket around
128 that's our final list and yeah and
then we apply it one more time so our
third time we get five is odd 15 16 so
we get 16 here and then we actually get
16 here so what happens is WEP group it
all into one big list and then we
actually take we call our function yet
another time but we actually just get s0
so what's going to happen is we're going
to wrap all this in another bracket but
then we're going to get the zeroth
element of that bracket which is just
this anyways so
um our final result is going to be um
our list is going to look like that so
we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 13
14 15 16 so we have
16 all right so looking at 6A um this
problem asks us to evaluate the number
of parentheses required to write a
certain value in standard scheme
notation so what that means is we
essentially want to go across our
sequence and count the number of times
parentheses shows up so if you look at
the doc test um when you pass in parent
3 it's going to evaluate to zero because
there's no parentheses in this um
whereas if you pass in PR list of three
of three um list of three of three is
going to evaluate to three
three and then a value to two because
there's two
parentheses um if you pass in PRS of 3.3
it's going to evaluate to two and and
similarly in this one there's uh two
parentheses total because it essentially
simplifies first to 3 three um for this
test there's four
and this one there's also four and for
this last one it looks like there's
eight so thinking about this problem
what I would do first is I would
essentially draw down some notes um the
first thing you have to notice is that
there can only be an even number of
parentheses there will never be some odd
number because every opening parenthesis
also has to have a closing parenthesis
so that's an important thing to note
where our value is going to be
even
okay
so uh oops let me just erase that is
going to be
even uh the next thing that we want to
note is that uh we somehow want to
accumulate these values right and so
looking at um
our us skeleton code structure what they
give us is that're they're defining some
helper function inside and what this
helper function does is it's named F and
it takes in some s that we pass in from
pen s and it has a t so our next step is
identifying what T is and we know that
we're going to accumulate some value
right we have to accumulate some
parentheses um so we can assume that t
will act as um some count that we can
accumulate okay okay
so the next step is essentially
understanding that um we're going to
iterate across our list right if we
think of these scheme sequences as some
like link list right we want to iterate
across our entire
sequence um and
essentially uh we can count on lists
being inside the car
uh of each um respective node so what
that means is essentially we can just
check the car of some list to see if
there's more parentheses inside if
there's list within lists or if there's
parentheses within parenthesis so we
want to iterate across our entire list
and then just check the car for more
parentheses um inside each
section um so yeah at the end we know
that when we're done we could just
return our T
value um so that is one base case that
we that we could um keep in mind to
identify later so let's work with our
skeleton code right now um what we see
is they Define some paren s but also
they have a helper function in here so
they're defining the paren S which
Returns the bot which returns to call to
some helper function named F and now we
know that t is going to correspond on to
a value that we want to accumulate and
so it can't be a Boolean right it can't
be a false or a true and so we can go
ahead and just cross those out right off
the
bat um the second thing that we notice
is
that um it starts at zero or two we know
that t has to start at some value but we
don't know what it should start out yet
so let's just leave that blank for now
and we can come back and revisit that
later um inside of this uh helper body
we given some condition and these
conditions correspond to a pair a null
check and an else check so in this pair
it looks like we're trying to add
something to some value okay and we know
that we're
accumulating our T value and so it's
safe to say that um we might this might
be some point of Interest where we want
to keep our T and accumulate it using
some car and cutter like I said earlier
where we're going to iterate through
this entire sequence and count the
number of times each parenthesis occurs
in the car of each
subsequence so right off the bat we know
that we can essentially um eliminate
some values like one CU we know that
there's never going to be a instance
where we have like one open parenthesis
and um no closing parenthesis so we can
iterate some strange odd values and if
T1 zero we know that t will always be a
true value and so um essentially what
this does is return one always um so we
can get rid of that
too um some other things we can also get
rid of um are these true and false
booleans so let's eliminate
this and okay from
here we know that we're going
to um go into the null case as well so
let's work on the null case uh jumping
around a bit but um in the null case we
see that
we can either return zero one two or T
and we said here when we reach the null
when we reach the end of a sequence we
want to return um just T what we've
accumulated so far so now we can cross
out all these values and return our T
and this if T1 Zer still doesn't make
sense so let's just cross that
out we know that um if our sequence
turns out to not be neither a pair nor
um empty um then it's gonna we're just
going to return zero so this is the case
for this stock test paren 3 we're going
to pass in a three and then um we're
going to see that okay it's not a pair
and it's not empty and so we're just
going to return zero for this and hence
we have
that um so the next thing you want to
consider is how do we get this um
recursive case going now so what should
we cross off for this part well we know
that when we have a
pair we have to iterate across the
sequence but then we could check the car
of the sequence to see if there's any
extra list within lists so if there are
extra list within lists in the car we
know that we're going to add on another
set of parentheses at least so we're
going to add another two parentheses to
our count so we're going to keep our
T and then we're going to essentially
add on two if we have car of s so out of
all of these car s options we only have
one that's two and that's essentially um
this one so let's cross out all the car
s's that don't correspond to
two um so this
one and we know that because we're
accumulating some T we can also cross
out this to as
well um in our cutter we're just
iterating um through this sequence um as
the as the recursive case calls it and
so we can get rid of all the Cutters
that don't correspond to zero because
when we iterate across we're not
accumulating any extra
parentheses and so we can get rid of
this cutter and you can get rid of this
cutter okay and so now the question is
um what do we want to start with we're
really close to our answer it seems like
we've fleshed out most of the code and
so what we want to do now is walk
through our base case and see if we
could start at some value whether it's
zero or
two so we we have this first case down
right now we want to go through this
list 3 three this is some 3 three and so
when we pass this into
paren what we're going to do is um we
could start it with zero or we could
start it with two so if we started with
zero what is going to happen well s is
going to be 33 T is going to be zero and
because it's a pair we're going to
increment
T by some
value so we're going to increment T by
the call uh by the recursive call to the
helper function when we pass in Cutter
of s and car of s right so we have to
check the car of s we know the car of s
is just three and so this is eventually
going to return zero for
us and then the cutter of s is also just
three it's not a list within um here
either and so this is also going to
return zero for us so in the end we have
t plus
f cter
s z plus
F car s z this is a zero this is a zero
and we know this is a zero so that's not
exactly right I mean we want to return
two and so the most logical thing would
be to start this T starting at two so we
can erase this um statement and so this
is our finished code and let's just walk
through a couple examples to see if
we're on the right
track so let's look at these last few
problems um these strange Edge case ones
so we have empty parentheses and inside
of another set of empty
parentheses so when we pass this value
in we're going to um say Okay s is going
to be bound to these this Tuple within a
tuple and um T is going to be bound to
two because we set it as t uh we set it
as two when we call
it and so because this is a pair
we're going to say um car of
S2 um plus T which is
two uh plus cutter of S
zero so the cutter of this is nothing
it's
null um so what we're going to
do is essentially just return
T and then the car here is going to be
um some value here and we know that this
is a set of parentheses which should be
two and so saying Car 2 is
correct because we know that t is two
currently and we're adding the car two
and so that's just going to be
four okay so walking through um the last
problem what we can do is say um we're
going to pass in this sequence
and we know that um T is going to be
two plus the car of s which is going to
be um this element in the
beginning right plus the cutter of s
which is going to be this longer element
at the
end so it's going to
be three like that
okay so we know our T is currently
two and this one if we pass in this
subsequence into the helper method it
should return two so let's try it so s
is going to be this um
sequence and then uh because it is um a
pair uh what we can do is uh we can call
F of car s on
two um and cutter of zero
so uh what we're going to do is we're
going to make another call here and the
car of s is three and the cutter here is
going to be um some
nil and
so this uh we know that has two
parentheses and this one if we do the
recursive leap of faith it should be the
first element is this list three and
then next one is some nil
whereas this one evaluates to some three
no but that's two here and uh two on the
outside so it's two two and two and two
so that is eight here so it corresponds
to our doc test so we know that um the
things we crossed out um is
correct so moving on to Part
B we want to write a quote expression
that evaluates to some scheme list one
list 2 3 that has as many parentheses as
possible in the
expression so a well-formed answer is
quote 1 two 3 but this isn't maximizing
the amount of parentheses we can have
right so in order to essentially take
advantage of U maximizing our
parenthesis count we want to use the dot
notation next to the parenthesis because
we know that this still forms a wall
form list is just um more
verbose and so um looking at this
problem
we have parentheses out here for the
quote and our first element in this list
that we're trying to form is a
one and because we're using we're um
taking advantage of the dot notation
we're going to say
dot and our next set of items is going
to be in this
parenthesis our next set of items is
going to be two and three but the two is
an A List itself so we know that because
it's an A List itself we have to set
another set of parentheses here for the
two we're going to do another dot
notation and because it's a Well form
list it has to be nil and so we'll add a
nil
here um and so we have our two list here
and now we want to add our three at the
end so we're going to take another
dot add a three here and finish it off
with the dot in the inside here as well
so it looks like um we have one two 3
four five because this parentheses
corresponds to this outer one here so 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 so in the end we should have 14 uh
parentheses total if we're maximizing um
the amount of parentheses that we could
pass
in okay so for part C we want to analyze
how many total calls so scheme eval
would be required to evaluate paren 3 in
your scheme
interpreter all right so let's count
this uh piece by piece using what we
have here um so we pass in parents 3
we're going to make a call here eval
here and here and then when we enter
this body by um calling the function we
know that it returns FST
so f s and two so we're going to call
this and then we're going to eval each
individual token
inside and inside of this body of this
um helper function there's um the
condition right so we have a
cond oops we have a cond and we have
pair
S uh null
s and else
Z okay so the first thing that we want
to evaluate in this helper body is
cond so we have
cond and we're going to evaluate each of
these and so um we already have these
three um evaluations but inside of each
evaluation because s is not a pair it's
three it's not a pair so we're going to
evaluate pair S and then because um this
isn't withhold we're going to go to the
next condition which is null and S so
you're going to valuate null and S and
because three is not null um we're going
to go to the else condition which is
just zero so in total we have um just
count the number of underlines that we
uh marked and so we have
1 uh 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
so that's our
answer so here we are looking at a
stream in scheme such that it Returns
the elements in the sequence that skips
all the Fibonacci numbers right
basically all the non-ib Fibonacci
numbers that is what we want we see that
no FIB is defined as calling p with
three five and four so that's a hint so
we're going to start off as previous is
going to be
three current is going to be five and N
S4 so here's a sequence of non Fibonacci
numbers so we obviously we want four
because it's not a Fibonacci number and
then we want to move on right so by
moving on we want to jump to six but how
do we know to skip five right so when n
becomes five we see that n matches one
of these five matches one of these
values and so we're going to skip five
and we can move on to six but while
moving on to six we don't know the next
Fibonacci number to skip so what's going
to happen is that we're going to
calculate the Fibonacci number along and
pass it on as pref and curve so here
previous get turned to five and current
gets added to eight right so six we're
going to keep it so this stream we have
four we don't know so we question mark
to to know a stream here is going to be
six right so six moves on to seven again
Seven's not any of these values and
we're going to keep going we're going to
add it on and then we're going to look
at
at eight eight is same as current so
then we going to up we're going to skip
it and move to nine at the same time
we're going to change this to eight and
change this to 13 and keep going notice
that we NE we never have to use previous
we just have to use current so in an if
Case is that if current is the same as n
then we want to skip n so what we want
to do is call recursively call P we're
going to skip n so we're going to skip n
to n +1 but at the same time we also
want to calculate the next Fibonacci
number so here we pass current into the
next previous and the next Fibonacci
number gets calculated AS prevence Plus
current right but if it's not equal then
we want n right we want to add n into
our stream so we're going to use const
stream passing an n and the rest of the
case is going to be a recursive call to
P because P denotes the stream such that
our previous is going to be the same
previous we have the same current
because we're still with and is still
within the range of current and the next
value we're going to be checking is
going to be n + 1 and just close all
parenthesis in the SQL question we want
to make use of recursive select so what
a hemming number is is that all positive
it contains all positive integers with
no prime factors other than 2 3 or five
so if we start off as one then
multiplying one by two three or five
gives us nonprime numbers like um except
those that multiples of three two three
and five now after looking at one we can
look at two and multiply this number by
two three and five and keep going so
this gives us to the reive select
because after we've computed some
elements we can use those elements to
compute the next hemming next numbers in
our Hamming sequence right so we see
that t contains a table 2 3 and five is
K so here table T has column K with two
three and
five and in our hem n this is where the
uh recursive select comes in so what
should be the base number and the
hemming number so we're looking at the
sequence we saw of as one right so you
might think that we can just go oh
select all from T but if we do this even
though we have two three and five we're
not going to have one so we cannot
select from T we going to have to select
one as n remember that we have to give
it a column name because one isn't value
if we're selecting all from T it will
just use K as the column name right
going to select One S oh sorry since
this is um actually with local table we
don't have to use we don't have to not
the common name because it's the not
here here already right so after we have
one we want to select
from him
again but also T because T contains all
the multiple the prime factors that we
want right two three and five and what
we want to do is that to get two I'm
multiply one by two to get two one by
three to get three one by five to get
five so we've seen one already next time
we want to compute some other element
we're going to take two multiply two by
each of these values in K so we're going
to get four six and 10 um let's go this
way and then that way so we're going to
get 10 right somewhere down
there and two has been used then we look
at three three m 2 is 6 it's already
here 3 3 is 9 3x 5 is 15 right and then
we're going to look at four four is
going to look C8 4 3 is C2 and four five
is C2 and this is going to fill in the
sequence like that so what we want the
Hamming number that we want is just
going to be what we are at right now in
ham multiply by every value in K cuz
when we join every value gets every
value in ham um every row gets matched
up with every other every Row in t right
and we want it so that the hemming
numbers less than 100 in increasing
order so the increasing order part is
already done for you and this final
select statement we're going to order by
n so in this where all we have to do is
make sure that it's less than 100 so in
this Row the hemming number that we're
looking at is n * K not n n n is the
previous hemming number that we're using
to compute the hemming number in this
row so the wear here is going to be the
H the new hemming number must be less
than 100 so in the final question of
this final um we want to select all
positive
integers such that it has at least three
proper multiples they're less than or
equal to X all right so let's not worry
about three and let's not worry about X
let's just look at see what a proper
multiple is so what it is is that it has
some value M such that it's larger than
n and that n evenly divid it's m so
we're going to make use of mod here
right and this has to be equal to
zero so we need both M and N right and
this is that means we have to make use
of two tables in order for um us to have
a join the only current table that we
have right now is actually local table
ins all it is is select one from and up
to X so we're going to one to up to 20
so ins contains 1 2 3 3 4 all the way
until
right now the other thing that I'm
looking at is that since we need two
columns two values in the same Row in
only has one right so we're going to
make use of joining and by joining we're
going to join ins with ins
again this
way we're going to uh get this joint is
going to give us tables such as like one
and one one and two one and three like
and then 2 one 2
two oops sorry 2 two and then all the
way down until um 19 and 19 right that
means that in each of these rows one of
one of these could be M so let's say
this is M and one of these could be n
and we just make the and we can just
keep the row such that n evenly divides
into M so the table we want to select
from is
INS as M and also ins s n hold on um
let's use a and b because we have n here
already and we just want to select B's n
we going to use we're going to treat b
as the T um as the ins that represent n
and a as the ins that represent M and so
we want
b.n such that
we know that M has to be greater than n
so a n must
be greater than n and also B's n right
so A's n has to be greater than B's n
and we need enforce the rule that it's
evenly divisible so a. n mod b.n is
equal to
zero right so does this takes care of
the case that is less or equal to X well
it does because here in is created such
that n is less than or equal to x 20
never appears anywhere here right so all
positive integers that were that's in
the in table are all values as less than
or equal to X so we don't have to worry
about X and our um select statement so
the other thing is that we want to make
sure that we have at least three
multiple proper um three proper
multiples we see that the final result
contains the integer and the proper
multiple that we have so something that
can count number of rows is Count
Star right so but count star counts
everything right what we want to do is
we want to group by
b.n so here let's look at three has five
proper multiples so what's going to
happen is that we're going to see three
with six three with n
three with 12 three with 15 and three of
18 all of these is going to satisfy this
wear condition and we're going to group
them together so here we're going to
group three by the themselves and here
we could have something like four or
something four something as well so each
integer is going to get grouped by
together count star is now going to
count for each integer group it's going
to count the number of rows right so
here for the
three um group it has five rows so count
star is going to give us five right so
we only want to keep the row the groups
such
that it has three prop at least three
proper multiples so our
count must
be greater than or equal to three right
and it's only going to go through these
groups it's going to keep the elements
such that the count of the groups is
going to be greater than equal
three and since the output is a count
that's all we need